>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13:
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
CONTINUES HIS CAMPAIGN TO ROUND
UP ARAB SUPPORT IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE; A NEW
HOMELAND SECURITY PLAN TO BEEF
UP SECURITY ALONG THE BORDER
WITH MEXICO; AND IN OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, CHINA
STRUGGLES TO PROVIDE FOR ITS
RAPIDLY GROWING MIDDLE CLASS.
>> THEY’RE FEELING VERY
VULNERABLE AT THIS POINT.
THEY KNOW THAT THEY CAN’T FEED
THEMSELVES ANYMORE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
TRAVELED TODAY TO CAIRO TO TRY
TO ENLIST EGYPT’S SUPPORT IN
WHAT THE WHITE HOUSE DESCRIBED
AS AMERICA’S WAR AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC STATE, ALSO KNOWN AS
ISIL.
EGYPT IS THE MOST POPULOUS
COUNTRY IN THE ARAB WORLD.
>> IT WILL BE OUR GOAL IN EVERY
MEETING THAT WE HAVE ON THE
INTERNATIONAL BASIS, TOGETHER,
WORKING TO DEGRADE AND
ULTIMATELY TO DEFEAT ISIL.
>> Sreenivasan: IN HIS WEEKLY
RADIO ADDRESS, PRESIDENT OBAMA
ALSO EMPHASIZED THE NEED TO
BUILD AN ARAB COALITION TO FIGHT
THE EXTREMIST GROUP, WHICH HAS
SEIZED SIGNIFICANT PORTIONS OF
SYRIA AND IRAQ.
BUT THE PRESIDENT CAUTIONED:
>> TO MEET A THREAT LIKE THIS,
WE HAVE TO BE SMART, WE HAVE TO
USE OUR POWER WISELY, AND WE
HAVE TO AVOID THE MISTAKES OF
THE PAST.
>> Sreenivasan: THE IRAQI PRIME
MINISTER, HAIDER AL-ABADI, SAID
TODAY THAT HE HAS ORDERED THE
ARMY TO STOP SHELLING POPULATED
AREAS HELD BY THE ISLAMIC STATE
TO HELP REDUCE CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES.
THE GROUP CONTROLS A NUMBER OF
IRAQI CITIES, INCLUDING MOSUL,
TIKRIT AND FALLUJAH.
LATE THIS AFTERNOON, SEVERAL
PUBLISHED REPORTS SAID ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS ARE CIRCULATING
A NEW VIDEO SHOWING THE
BEHEADING OF A THIRD HOSTAGE,
A BRIT, DAVID CAWTHORNE HAINES.
THE 44-YEAR-OLD, A FATHER OF
TWO, WAS KIDNAPPED 18 MONTHS AGO
IN SYRIA.
HE HAD BEEN DOING HUMANITARIAN
WORK AROUND THE WORLD SINCE
1999.
TURNING NOW TO UKRAINE, WHERE
DESPITE THE RECENT CEASE-FIRE
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS ITS FORCES
REPELLED AN ATTACK BY
PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS AT THE
AIRPORT IN DONETSK.
NEARBY, IN LUHANSK, A CONVOY OF
MORE THAN 200 RUSSIAN TRUCKS
CROSSED THE BORDER TO DELIVER
FOOD TO THAT REBEL-HELD CITY OF
400,000.
THOUSANDS OF RESIDENTS THERE
HAVE BEEN WITHOUT WATER OR
ELECTRICITY FOR SEVERAL WEEKS.
TODAY, UKRAINE’S PRIME MINISTER
EXPRESSED PESSIMISM ABOUT A
PEACEFUL RESOLUTION TO THE
CRISIS.
>> LET ME PUT IT BLUNTLY, WE ARE
STILL IN THE STATE OF WAR, AND
THE KEY AGGRESSOR IS RUSSIAN
FEDERATION.
>> Sreenivasan: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS FROM THREE STATES
CONVERGED ON A LOCATION IN
NORTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA
OVERNIGHT AFTER TWO STATE
TROOPERS WERE SHOT OUTSIDE THEIR
BARRACKS.
ONE TROOPER WAS KILLED AND THE
OTHER WOUNDED.
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED IN
BLOOMING GROVE, PENNSYLVANIA.
POLICE ARE QUESTIONING A 48-
YEAR-OLD MAN DESCRIBED AS A
PERSON OF INTEREST.
NO ARRESTS HAVE BEEN MADE.
WITH LESS THAN TWO MONTHS UNTIL
ELECTION DAY, A FEDERAL APPEALS
COURT HAS REINSTATED A WISCONSIN
LAW REQUIRING VOTERS TO SHOW A
PHOTO I.D. AT THE POLLS.
A THREE-JUDGE PANEL ISSUED THE
RULING YESTERDAY.
LAST APRIL, A LOWER COURT FOUND
THE LAW UNCONSTITUTIONAL, SAYING
IT POSED AN UNFAIR BURDEN ON
POOR AND MINORITY VOTERS.
MORE THAN 30 STATES HAVE SOME
FORM OF VOTER I.D. LAW ON THE
BOOKS.
THE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NOW
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT UP TO A THIRD
OF ITS RETIRED PLAYERS COULD
DEVELOP LONG-TERM COGNITIVE
PROBLEMS, MANY AT WHAT IT
DESCRIBES AS "NOTABLY YOUNGER
AGES" THAN THE GENERAL
POPULATION.
THE DISCLOSURE WAS MADE IN
PAPERS FILED IN FEDERAL COURT IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SETTLEMENT
OF A LAWSUIT BROUGHT BY FORMER
PLAYERS AGAINST THE LEAGUE.
ADRIAN PETERSON, ONE OF THE
N.F.L.’S BIGGEST STARS, HAS BEEN
INDICTED IN TEXAS ON CHILD ABUSE
CHARGES.
HE ALLEGEDLY USED A BRANCH TO
SPANK HIS FOUR-YEAR-OLD SON.
THE CHILD REPORTEDLY SUFFERED
NUMEROUS CUTS AND BRUISES ON HIS
BACK, LEGS, BUTTOCKS AND
SCROTUM.
PETERSON’S LAWYER SAYS THE
MINNESOTA VIKINGS RUNNING BACK
NEVER INTENDED TO HARM THE CHILD
AND SAID PETERSON HAD BEEN
DISCIPLINED THE SAME WAY WHEN HE
WAS GROWING UP.
AND FOR 13 YEARS, NO ONE KNEW
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE PEOPLE IN
THIS PHOTOGRAPH, WHICH WAS FOUND
AT GROUND ZERO A MONTH AFTER THE
9/11 ATTACK.
EACH YEAR, LESLEY UNIVERSITY
PROFESSOR ELIZABETH STRINGER
KEEFE POSTED THE PICTURE ONLINE
HOPING TO SOLVE THE MYSTERY.
FINALLY, THIS WEEK, A NETWORK OF
BOSTON BLOGS WROTE ABOUT HER
SEARCH, AND MORE THAN 70,000
PEOPLE RETWEETED THE PHOTO.
ON FRIDAY, ONE OF THE PEOPLE IN
THE PHOTO SAW IT AND CAME
FORWARD.
TURNS OUT, FRED MAHE WAS ON THE
77th FLOOR OF THE SOUTH TOWER ON
THE DAY OF THE ATTACK AND HIS
PHOTO WAS LOST.
THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT EVERYONE
IN THE PICTURE IS ALIVE.
MAHE WROTE, "ON SEPTEMBER 11, WE
REMEMBER WHAT WE LOST.
ON SEPTEMBER 12, WE REMEMBER
WHAT WE HAVE."
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ABOUT
THE WAR ON THE ISLAMIC STATE, WE
ARE JOINED NOW BY AUSTIN LONG.
HE IS A PROFESSOR AT COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY’S SCHOOL OF
INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC
AFFAIRS.
PREVIOUSLY, HE WAS AN ADVISER TO
THE MULTINATIONAL FORCE IN IRAQ.
SO THERE SEEMS TO BE IN PUBLIC
OPINION POLLS SUPPORT FOR AIR
STRIKES BUT NOT FOR GROUND
TROOPS.
AND THAT SEEMS TO BE THE PLAN
THAT THE PRESIDENT IS FOLLOWING
AT THE MOMENT.
HOW EFFECTIVE CAN AIR STRIKES BE
WITHOUT INTELLIGENCE ON THE
GROUND THAT CAN VERIFY WHAT’S
HAPPENING AND GATHER MORE
INTELLIGENCE ON WHETHER YOU’RE
GOING TO DO THE RIGHT THING OR
NOT?
>> IT’S VERY DIFFICULT TO
CONDUCT EFFECTIVE AIR STRIKES
WITHOUT SOME GROUND PRESENCE.
IN EASTERN IRAQ, THE U.S. HAS
SOME GROUND PRESENCE IN THE FORM
OF ADVISERS.
THERE’S PROBABLY ALSO
INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS, THINGS
LIKE THAT.
YOU CAN ALSO COLLECT A LOT OF
INTELLIGENCE WITH ASSETS LIKE
DRONES.
SO THERE CAN BE SOME
EFFECTIVENESS.
BUT THE BIG QUESTION IS WHO ARE
GOING TO BE THE BOOTS ON THE
GROUND THAT TAKE THE TERRITORY
THAT AIR STRIKES SORT OF OPEN UP
OPPORTUNITY TO SEIZE?
>> Sreenivasan: RIGHT, AND THAT
RECORD HAS BEEN MIXED AT BEST
WHEN IT COMES TO IRAQI FORCES
STAYING THROUGH THE FIGHT.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE IRAQI SECURITY FORCES IN
PARTICULAR ARE VERY MIXED.
THEIR SPECIAL OPERATIONS UNITS
ARE QUITE EFFECTIVE AND HAVE
FOUGHT VERY WELL WITHIN THE
LIMITATIONS THAT THEY HAVE.
BUT THERE’S ONLY A FEW THOUSAND
OF THEM.
THE VAST BULK OF THE IRAQI
MILITARY SUFFERS FROM A LOT OF
WEAKNESSES, AND THE KURDISH
PESHMERGA, WHO HAVE FOUGHT
BETTER, STILL HAVE THEIR OWN
WEAKNESSES, AS WELL.
THERE ARE REAL QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHO WILL BE THE EFFECTIVE BOOTS
ON THE GROUND.
>> Sreenivasan: ISIL, ISIS,
ISLAMIC STATE, THEY STILL
CONTROL MAJOR CITIES.
HOW DO YOU FROM THE AIR TRY TO
CLEAR SOME OF THOSE CITIES WHEN
THESE GUYS CAN GO RIGHT BACK
INTO THE CIVILIAN POPULATION?
>> IT’S VERY CHALLENGING.
EVEN WITH THE UNITED STATES
HAVING TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
TROOPS IN IRAQ AND AT THE
HEIGHT OF THE SURGE, WE WEREN’T
ABLE TO COMPLETELY ELIMINATE AL
QAEDA IN IRAQ, WHICH WAS SORT OF
THE PREDECESSOR OF THE ISLAMIC
STATE, AND THEY HUNG ON AND HAD
A PRESENCE IN MOSUL, SORT OF
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE TIME THE
U.S. WAS THERE, EVEN IF IT WAS A
MUCH LOWER LEVEL PRESENCE.
IT’S VERY CHALLENGING TO CLEAR
THAT KIND OF PRESENCE OUT.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
LONGER TERM CONCERNS IS THE
TRAINING WE WOULD PROVIDE OR
ESPECIALLY THE EQUIPMENT WE
WOULD PROVIDE IN THIS FIGHT.
SOMETIMES THE EQUIPMENT IS USED
AGAINST US.
THERE’S A BACKLASH WHEN IT FALLS
INTO THE WRONG HANDS.
HOW DO WE PROTECT AGAINST THAT?
>> IT’S EXTREMELY CHALLENGING.
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT TRAINING UP
THE IRAQI SECURITY FORCES.
WE HAD A BIG ENDEAVOR TO DO THAT
FOR YEARS IN IRAQ, AND, YET,
YOU SAW THE COLLAPSE IN MOSUL
AND THE SEIZURE OF A LOT OF
EQUIPMENT.
THE KEY IS TO BUILD UP THE
CAPABILITIES OF THE ORGANIZATION
BEFORE YOU JUST DUMP A LOT OF
WEAPONS ON IT, AND THAT’S ALSO,
I THINK, A RISK ACROSS THE
BORDER IN SYRIA, WITH TRYING TO
ARM SYRIAN REBELS IS YOU HAVE
THE POSSIBILITY THAT WITHOUT
BUILDING UP THE ORGANIZATION,
DUMP WEAPONS ON THEM, THE
ISLAMIC STATE CAN THEN JUST TAKE
THEM FROM THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: SPEAKING OF
SYRIA, WHEN YOU GO ACROSS THAT
BORDER, WHO IS LEFT TO BE THE
ALLY THERE?
IT SEEMS THEY’VE BEEN, ON THE
ONE HARD, DEGRADED BY AL-
BASHAR’S FORCES AND ON THE OTHER
HAND DEGRADED BY ISIL.
>> THERE’S A FRAGMENTED
SELECTION OF MILITIAS THERE THAT
WILL HAVE TO BE REBUILT INTO
SOMETHING THAT RESEMBLES AN
ARMY.
WHATEVER THE CHALLENGES IN IRAQ
ARE, IN TERMS OF PROVIDING
SUPPORT TO POTENTIAL LOCAL
GROUND FORCES, I THINK THE
CHALLENGE IS MUCH GREATER IN
SYRIA.
>> Sreenivasan: LET’S TALK ABOUT
TIMELINES HERE.
THE PRESIDENT SAID LET’S BRACE
OURSELVES FOR A LONG-TERM
ENGAGEMENT.
HOW LONG IS THIS GOING TO TAKE?
>> IT’S GOING TO TAKE A VERY
LONG TIME.
I THINK YEARS WOULD BE PRETTY
GENEROUS.
NOW, YEARS WOULD BE TO
COMPLETELY DEFEAT THE GROUP.
I THINK YOU CAN MAKE REAL
PROGRESS IN TAKING SOME OF THESE
KEY CITIES BACK ON A SHORTER
TIMELINE BUT IT’S STILL NOT
GOING TO BE DAYS OR WEEKS.
IT’S PROBABLY GOING TO BE MONTHS
TO YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THAT’S IN
BOTH IRAQ AND SYRIA?
>> I THINK SYRIA IS PROBABLY
EVEN MORE CHALLENGING.
I MEAN THE ISLAMIC STATE IS MUCH
STRONGER THAN MOST OF THE REBEL
GROUPS THERE; REBUILDING THEM
INTO SOMETHING LIKE A
FUNCTIONING ARMY I THINK WILL
TAKE A VERY LONG TIME.
YOU CAN LAUNCH STRIKES IN SYRIA
WITHOUT REBUILDING THOSE FORCES,
BUT THEN YOU’RE, AT LEAST
INDIRECTLY, GOING TO BENEFIT
PRESIDENT ASSAD’S REGIME.
>> Sreenivasan: AUSTIN LONG FROM
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY’S SCHOOL OF
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC AFFAIRS,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
TONIGHT, PART TWO OF A SERIES BY
THE CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING.
THE FOCUS: CHINA’S PURCHASE LAST
SEPTEMBER OF AMERICA’S LARGEST
PORK PRODUCER, SMITHFIELD FOODS.
LAST NIGHT’S REPORT EXAMINED THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT’S ROLE IN THE
$4.7 BILLION ACQUISITION.
TONIGHT, A LOOK AT HOW THE DEAL
FITS INTO THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT’S PLANS TO FEED ITS
1.4 BILLION PEOPLE.
THE STORY, BY NATHAN HALVERSON,
BEGINS IN HENAN PROVINCE, THE
"BREADBASKET OF CHINA."
>> Reporter: LI GROWS CROPS ON A
FEW ACRES OF LAND ABOUT 300
MILES SOUTH OF BEIJING.
FARMERS LIKE LI PRODUCE THE BULK
OF CHINA’S FOOD.
>> (translated): IT HAS BEEN
THE SAME WAY-- WHEAT IN THE
SPRING AND CORN IN THE FALL.
ALWAYS THIS WAY.
IT HAS NEVER CHANGED.
(LAUGHS)
>> Reporter: BUT CHANGE IS
COMING.
FARMERS LIKE LI CAN NO LONGER
PRODUCE ENOUGH FOOD TO SATISFY
CHINA’S GROWING DEMAND.
THE COUNTRY IS IN THE MIDST OF
THE LARGEST AGRARIAN REFORMS IN
WORLD HISTORY.
>> CHINA IS ROUGHLY THE SAME
SIZE AS THE UNITED STATES.
THE CROPLAND AREA IS SIMILAR.
THE GRAIN HARVEST IS SIMILAR.
THE DIFFERENCE IS, IN THE U.S.,
WE HAVE 300 MILLION PEOPLE, AND
THERE THEY HAVE 1.4 BILLION
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: LESTER BROWN IS A
FOOD ECONOMIST AND AUTHOR OF
"WHO WILL FEED CHINA?"
HE SAYS CHINA MUST NOW MAKE THE
MOST OF ITS LIMITED FARMLAND.
>> AND THEY’RE FEELING VERY
VULNERABLE AT THIS POINT.
THEY KNOW THAT THEY CAN’T FEED
THEMSELVES ANYMORE.
>> Reporter: THAT FEAR HAS
RATTLED THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
IN 2011, IT ANNOUNCED A FIVE-
YEAR PLAN TO RADICALLY OVERHAUL
CHINA’S FARM SYSTEM AND RELOCATE
250 MILLION FARMERS TO CITIES.
>> KEEP IN MIND THAT MOST OF THE
LEADERS IN BEIJING TODAY
CAN REMEMBER THE GREAT FAMINE OF
1959-61 WHEN 37 MILLION PEOPLE
STARVED TO DEATH.
>> Reporter: TODAY, THE
GOVERNMENT IS NO LONGER WORRIED
ABOUT STARVATION, BUT SATISFYING
AN AFFLUENT AND GROWING MIDDLE
CLASS THAT WANTS TO EAT LIKE
AMERICANS.
THE COMMUNIST PARTY NEEDS TO
KEEP PEOPLE HAPPY, SAYS THE
FORMER HEAD OF GOLDMAN SACHS IN
CHINA, FRED HU, NOW AN ADVISOR
TO THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: HU, A CHINESE
CITIZEN, SAYS THAT WHAT
CONSUMERS WANT TO EAT,
INCREASINGLY, IS MEAT.
AND MEAT IS SO RESOURCE-
INTENSIVE, IT PUTS EVEN MORE
PRESSURE ON CHINA’S STRAINED
FARMS.
>> Reporter: LAST YEAR’S
TAKEOVER OF SMITHFIELD FOODS,
THE LARGEST-EVER CHINESE
ACQUISITION OF AN AMERICAN
COMPANY, WAS A SIGNIFICANT PART
OF THE GOVERNMENT’S EFFORT TO
ACQUIRE RESOURCES FROM OUTSIDE
ITS BORDERS.
SMITHFIELD C.E.O. LARRY POPE IS
NOW AN EXECUTIVE WITH THE
CHINESE FIRM.
CHINA CONSUMES 50% OF THE
WORLD’S PORK?
>> HALF OF ALL THE WORLD’S PORK
IS EATEN IN THAT ONE COUNTRY AND
GROWING, AND GROWING STEADILY.
EVERY TWO OR THREE YEARS,
CHINA’S CONSUMPTION DEMAND GROWS
BY THE WHOLE SIZE OF THE U.S.
MARKET.
>> Reporter: POPE SAYS
SMITHFIELD IS ALREADY GEARING UP
TO SHIP MORE PORK TO CHINA.
>> IN MANY RESPECTS, THIS IS
CARRYING OUT THE GOVERNMENT’S
FIVE-YEAR PLAN, WHICH IS TO
IMPROVE THE QUALITY AND THE
SECURITY OF THEIR FOOD SUPPLY.
>> Reporter: CHINESE CONSUMERS
VIEW AMERICAN BRANDS, LIKE
SMITHFIELD PORK, AS SAFER THAN
DOMESTIC PRODUCTS.
AFTER YEARS OF FOOD SCANDALS,
THEY HAVE BECOME WARY OF CHINESE
BRANDS.
>> Reporter: OFFICIALS ARE NOW
TAKING A CLOSER LOOK AT WHERE
THE FOOD IS COMING FROM.
>> (translated): MY NAME IS
WANG.
I’M A PIG FARMER.
>> Reporter: WANG IS A TYPICAL
HOG FARMER, RAISING ABOUT 100
PIGS IN A BARN ATTACHED TO HIS
HOUSE.
200 MILLION SMALL FARMERS
SCATTERED ACROSS THE COUNTRYSIDE
RAISE MOST OF CHINA’S LIVESTOCK.
THE GOVERNMENT KNOWS FOOD SAFETY
ISN’T ALWAYS A PRIORITY ON
THESE FARMS.
>> (translated): RAISING PIGS
IS ACTUALLY EASY.
THEY CAN EAT WHENEVER THEY WANT.
YOU JUST THROW THE FOOD IN THE
PEN.
WHEN THEY’RE HUNGRY, THEY WILL
COME TO EAT.
IF NOT, WHATEVER.
>> Reporter: I NOTICED SOME OPEN
VIALS ON A DIRTY TABLE.
SOME FARMERS HAVE BEEN CAUGHT
USING ILLEGAL GROWTH HORMONES.
I ASKED WANG ABOUT THE VIALS.
>> (translated): A WHILE AGO,
THE PIGS GOT SICK AND WERE
COUGHING.
>> Reporter: KEEPING TAINTED
PORK OFF CHINESE PLATES HAS BEEN
A STRUGGLE IN CHINA’S FRAGMENTED
FARMING SYSTEM.
SCOTT ROZELLE IS AN AGRICULTURAL
ECONOMIST AT STANFORD.
>> YOU HAVE ALL THESE HOGS
COMING FROM EVERYWHERE.
THEY HAVE HOOF AND MOUTH
DISEASE.
THEY COULD HAVE OTHER PORK
DISEASES.
YOU MAY HAVE BEEN GIVING THEM
INJECTIONS OF HORMONES TO MAKE
THEM GROW FASTER, AND YOU DON’T
KNOW WHAT YOU’RE GETTING.
AND SO, THERE’S ABSOLUTELY NO
WAY YOU CAN RETRACE ANY FOOD
SAFETY FROM THERE.
>> Reporter: MODERN FACILITIES
PROVIDE AN EASIER WAY TO MONITOR
FOOD SAFETY, A KEY GOAL OF THE
GOVERNMENT’S FIVE-YEAR PLAN.
CHINA IS PUSHING TO REPLACE
FAMILY FARMS WITH LARGE-SCALE
OPERATIONS LIKE SHUANGHUI, THE
COMPANY THAT BOUGHT SMITHFIELD
FOODS.
WE RECEIVED A TOUR OF A
SHUANGHUI PLANT FROM ITS
PRESIDENT, ZHANG TAIXI.
>> (translated): THE CURRENT
TECHNOLOGIES OF THIS FACTORY ARE
A LITTLE OUTDATED.
THE NEW FACTORIES WE ARE
BUILDING WILL BE STATE-OF-THE-
ART.
>> Reporter: WITH THE TAKEOVER,
CHINA’S LARGEST MEAT PROCESSOR
ACQUIRED SMITHFIELD’S FOOD
SAFETY TECHNOLOGY.
ZHANG TOLD US THE GOVERNMENT IS
RAPIDLY OVERHAULING CHINA’S MEAT
INDUSTRY, CLOSING HALF OF ITS
SLAUGHTERHOUSES IN THE NEXT
YEAR.
>> (translated): THE NUMBER OF
SLAUGHTERHOUSES WILL BE REDUCED
FROM 20,000 TO 10,000 BY 2015 IN
ORDER TO MEET THE STANDARDS OF
FOOD SAFETY AS WELL AS
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
>> Reporter: THE RAPID INCREASE
IN MEAT PRODUCTION HAS RESULTED
IN DEVASTATING ENVIRONMENTAL
DAMAGE, ANOTHER ISSUE RATTLING
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
IT ESTIMATES THAT THREE-QUARTERS
OF ITS WATERWAYS ARE POLLUTED,
AND NEARLY HALF OF THAT
POLLUTION COMES FROM
AGRICULTURE.
HERE IN CHINA, SMALL PIG FARMS
STILL ACCOUNT FOR ABOUT 70% OF
PRODUCTION.
EACH FARM WILL HAVE MAYBE
100 PIGS, EACH PIG PRODUCING
TEN POUNDS OF MANURE EVERY DAY.
THE DOWNSIDE TO THESE OPERATIONS
ARE THAT THE MANURE HAS NOWHERE
TO GO EXCEPT FOR IN THE LOCAL
CULVERTS LIKE THIS.
ALL THE AGRICULTURAL WASTE MAKES
ITS WAY DOWN CHINA’S RIVERS,
INTO ITS LAKES AND OUT INTO THE
OCEAN, LEADING TO WIDESPREAD AND
TOXIC ALGAE BLOOMS, AFFECTING
FISHERMAN LIKE JIN TAO.
>> (translated): IT’S GOT
ALGAE.
A LOT OF THE WATER HAS ALGAE.
IT’S SCARY.
IF YOU DRINK THE WATER, YOU WILL
GET SICK.
>> Reporter: SHUANGHUI HOPES
THAT SMITHFIELD’S MODERN WASTE
MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGY WILL HELP
TACKLE POLLUTION.
SHUANGHUI SAYS IT IS COMMITTED
TO BUILDING MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY
FRIENDLY FACILITIES LIKE THE ONE
BEHIND ME, WHERE THE 28,000 HEAD
OF HOGS THAT ARE RAISED EVERY
YEAR HAVE THEIR MANURE RUNNING
OFF INTO THE LAGOONS, CAPTURING
IT AND PREVENTING IT FROM GOING
INTO THE NEARBY RIVERS.
HOW CHINA DEALS WITH ALL THESE
ISSUES-- FROM FOOD SHORTAGES TO
THE ENVIRONMENT-- WILL HAVE A
GLOBAL IMPACT.
THE SMITHFIELD PURCHASE INCLUDED
HOG FARMS IN POLAND, MEXICO AND
THE UNITED STATES.
>> OVER THE LONG TERM, MORE HOGS
WILL BE PRODUCED IN AMERICA, BUT
THAT WOULD BE MORE HOGS PRODUCED
IN ORDER TO SHIP PORK TO CHINA.
>> Reporter: PATRICK WOODALL IS
RESEARCH DIRECTOR AT FOOD
AND WATER WATCH, AN
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVOCACY GROUP.
>> THEY GET THE MEAT, WE GET THE
MANURE.
WE EXPORT THE BEST PART OF WHAT
RURAL AMERICA HAS TO OFFER, AND
WE KEEP THE WASTE.
>> Reporter: PROTECTING THE
ENVIRONMENT IS ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES FACING THE U.S. AS IT
SUPPLIES FOOD TO CHINA.
>> NO OTHER COUNTRY HAS EVER HAD
A BILLION PEOPLE MOVING UP THE
FOOD CHAIN CONSUMING MORE
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS, GRAIN-
INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION TO
SHIPPING MORE MEAT TO CHINA,
AMERICAN FARMERS ARE SENDING IT
MORE LIVESTOCK FEED THAN EVER.
TWO YEARS AGO, CHINA BECAME THE
LARGEST IMPORTER OF U.S. FARM
PRODUCTS.
>> WHEN YOU’RE DRIVING THROUGH
THE COUNTRY RIGHT NOW AND YOU
SEE THESE BIG FIELDS OUT THERE,
ONE OUT OF FOUR ROWS GOES TO
CHINA.
SO, THIS IS A HUGE MARKET, AND
IT’S A MARKET THAT I THINK IS
GOING TO GET EVEN BIGGER BECAUSE
THEIR MIDDLE CLASS HASN’T
STOPPED GROWING.
>> Reporter: FEEDING CHINA’S
MIDDLE CLASS, WHICH IS NOW
LARGER THAN THE POPULATION OF
THE U.S., IS A GROWING CHALLENGE
FOR THE ENTIRE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: WHO’S BEHIND THE
CHINESE TAKEOVER OF THE WORLD’S
LARGEST PORK PRODUCER?
WATCH PART ONE OF THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING’S
SERIES, "FOOD FOR NINE BILLION."
VISIT newshour.pbs.org.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY IS CONTEMPLATING THE
MOST SIGNIFICANT RESTRUCTURING
SINCE IT WAS CREATED AFTER THE
SEPTEMBER 11th ATTACKS, IN ORDER
TO BETTER SECURE THE BORDER WITH
MEXICO.
DEVLIN BARRETT OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL" WROTE ABOUT IT
ON THURSDAY, AND HE JOINS US NOW
FROM WASHINGTON.
SO, WHAT’S AT STAKE HERE IN THE
RECENT CRISIS, IF YOU WILL, OF A
BUNCH OF YOUNG MIGRANTS CROSSING
THE BORDER SHEDS SOME LIGHT ON
THE FACT THAT THERE ARE AT LEAST
TWO BIG AGENCIES, THE CUSTOMS
AND BORDER PROTECTION FOLKS, AND
THE IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
ENFORCEMENT FOLKS, ALL TACKLING
THIS.
>> RIGHT.
AND WHAT IT SPEAKS TO IS THERE
ARE REALLY TWO FORCES AT PLAY
HERE.
ONE IS THE IMMEDIATE CRISIS OF
ALL THE CHILDREN CROSSING, AND
THEY’RE STARTING TO SEE SOME
IMPROVEMENT, SOME REDUCTION IN
THE NUMBERS THERE.
BUT THERE’S THE BROADER ISSUE OF
WHAT PRETTY MUCH BOTH SIDES
AGREE IS A KIND OF BROKEN
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM IN THIS
COUNTRY, AND THE BORDER IS PART
OF THAT.
AND SO YOU HAVE THESE TWO
FORCES, BUT THE LONG-TERM
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS THAT PEOPLE
FEEL EXIST, AND THE SHORT-TERM,
IMMEDIATE PROBLEM OF SO MANY
CHILDREN CROSSING THE BORDER,
AND THEY’RE BOTH PUSHING THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
TO CONSIDER SOME PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN HOW
THEY’RE ORGANIZED AND HOW THEY
POLICE THAT BORDER.
>> Sreenivasan: SO HOW WOULD
IT CHANGE?
>> WELL, WHAT THEY’RE TALKING
ABOUT DOING IS CREATING A
SOUTHERN COMMAND, ESSENTIALLY,
TAKING A MILITARY MODEL OF
LEADERSHIP AND STRUCTURE AND
COMBINING THESE TWO AGENCIES
OPERATIONALLY FOR A LOT OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT WORK SO THAT YOU
ESSENTIALLY HAVE A MORE
STREAMLINED CHAIN OF COMMAND,
AND YOU HAVE MORE COORDINATION
BETWEEN THESE TWO GROUPS OF
PEOPLE WHO BOTH HAVE A BIG PART
IN THIS, BUT DON’T ALWAYS WORK
IN THE SAME ROOM TOGETHER.
>> Sreenivasan: IF YOU DIDN’T
MERGE THE TWO AGENCIES, WOULDN’T
YOU HAVE TWO CHAINS OF COMMAND
AND ESSENTIALLY CODIFY THE TURF
BATTLES?
>> RIGHT, WELL, THAT IS THE
CONCERN.
ONE OF THE CONCERNS EXPRESSED BY
SOME OF THE FOLKS I TALKED TO
IS, IF YOU CREATE THIS MILITARY-
STYLE CHAIN OF COMMAND, YOU
COULD END UP WITH ACTUALLY TWO
REPORTING CHAINS, TWO SETS OF
BOSSES, ESSENTIALLY, AND HOW
WILL THAT WORK?
NOW THE PEOPLE WHO THINK THIS IS
A GOOD IDEA SAY THAT, LOOK THE
MILITARY HAS SHOWN YOU CAN DO
THAT AND DO IT EFFECTIVELY AND
EFFICIENTLY.
THERE IS, OBVIOUSLY, SOME
SKEPTICISM IN SOME QUARTERS.
THE ONE THING THAT PEOPLE DO SAY
IS THEY HAVE A MANPOWER--
THERE’S A CONSTANT MANPOWER
CHALLENGE ON THE BORDER.
AND THIS IS ONE OF THE WAYS THEY
ARE CONSIDERING ONE OF THE
THINGS THEY HAVE ON THE DRAWING
BOARD AS THEY TRY TO COME UP
WITH WAYS TO ADDRESS THAT
MANPOWER ISSUE.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE
SIGNIFICANT INEFFICIENCIES NOW
WHERE THE AGENCIES AREN’T
WORKING TOGETHER AS BEST THEY
COULD?
>> YOU KNOW, THERE’S A BIT OF
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT THAT.
WHAT THIS IS REALLY ABOUT IS THE
NOTION OF POLICING THE BORDER
AND GOING AFTER SORT OF THE
LARGE SMUGGLING ORGANIZATIONS,
BOTH HUMAN SMUGGLING AND DRUG
SMUGGLING.
SOME PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT IF YOU
ACTUALLY GOT THESE GUYS DOING
MORE JOINT OPERATIONS TOGETHER,
LIKE THE MILITARY OFTEN DOES IN
ITS SOUTHERN COMMAND STRUCTURE,
THAT YOU WILL ACTUALLY DO BIGGER
CASES, GET BETTER RESULTS.
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE SKEPTICS WHO
SAY WE ARE ALREADY DOING THIS
WORK; YOU KNOW, MOVING THE
CHAIRS AROUND, CREATING A NEW
TITLE DOESN’T NECESSARILY FIX,
YOU KNOW, THE CHALLENGES WE
HAVE.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS ON THE
DRAWING BOARD PHASE NOW.
HOW LONG BEFORE SOMETHING LIKE
THIS COULD GET IMPLEMENTED,
PROPOSED TO CONGRESS, WORK ITS
WAY THROUGH?
>> YOU KNOW, IT’S A TRICKY
THING.
THEY’RE TALKING TO CONGRESS IN
LITTLE BITS AND PIECES ABOUT
THIS.
IT SOUNDS AS IF NO ONE’S REALLY
GOING TO TRY AND PUT ANYTHING
FORWARD BEFORE THE ELECTION.
I THINK THAT’S PROBABLY JUST TOO
DIFFICULT.
AND I THINK, FRANKLY, PEOPLE
WANT TO SEE WHAT THE ELECTION
RESULTS ARE, AND IF THAT POINTS
A WAY TOWARDS SOME SORT OF
AGREEMENT AS TO SOME THINGS YOU
COULD DO ON BORDER SECURITY.
POLITICALLY, THE REPUBLICANS
HAVE BEEN ARGUING FOR A WHILE
YOU SHOULDN’T DO ANY MAJOR
IMMIGRATION REFORM WITHOUT DOING
BORDER SECURITY FIRST.
THIS COULD BECOME A PIECE OF
THAT DISCUSSION, BUT I WOULD BE
SURPRISED IF THAT DISCUSSION
HAPPENS BEFORE THE ELECTION.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
DEVLIN BARRETT FROM THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL" JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DO YOU MOVE
ONE OF NORTH AMERICA’S LARGEST
WORKS BY PABLO PICASSO?
THE ANSWER, OF COURSE, IS VERY
CAREFULLY.
LAST WEEKEND, HERE IN NEW YORK
CITY, THE NEWSHOUR’S STEPHEN FEE
WATCHED AS A CREW WORKED
OVERNIGHT TO REMOVE AND THEN
MOVE A DELICATE STAGE CURTAIN
PAINTED BY THE SPANISH ARTIST IN
1919.
>> Reporter: THE NEARLY
CENTURY-OLD TAPESTRY DEPICTS
RESTING BULL FIGHT SPECTATORS
AND FOR 55 YEARS ADORNED THE
WALL OF ONE OF NEW YORK
CITY’S MOST ICONIC PARK AVENUE
LUNCH SPOTS.
AND THIS SEPTEMBER, AFTER MORE
THAN 12 HOURS OF CAREFUL
MANEUVERING, WORKERS REMOVED THE
FINAL STAPLES AND SCREWS HOLDING
THE 19 X 20 FOOT CURTAIN TO THE
WALL OF THE FOUR SEASONS
RESTAURANT.
>> I WAS REALLY CONCERNED THAT
BY THE TIME IT GOT TO THE TOP IT
MIGHT TEAR.
AND I’VE HAD MANY SLEEPLESS
NIGHTS THINKING OF THIS CURTAIN.
>> Reporter: THROUGHOUT THE
NIGHT, WORKERS ROLLED THE
CURTAIN FROM BOTTOM TO TOP,
USING A 23-FOOT-LONG TUBE, THEN
LOWERED IT TO A STEEL RIG,
AFFORDING UPSIDE DOWN VIEWS OF
TWO BULL FIGHT FANS.
LAST FALL, THE BUILDING OWNERS
DECIDED TO MOVE THE CANVAS
CURTAIN, SAYING THEY NEEDED TO
REPAIR THE WALL BEHIND IT.
BUT THE CURTAIN BELONGS TO THE
NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY.
IT WAS DONATED TO THE GROUP BY
THE BUILDING’S FORMER OWNER, AND
THE CONSERVANCY SUED TO KEEP THE
WORK IN PLACE.
THE PARTIES SETTLED THIS JUNE,
WITH THE BUILDING AGREEING TO
FRONT MOVING COSTS AND NEW YORK
HISTORICAL SOCIETY AGREEING TO
DISPLAY THE WORK PERMANENTLY.
>> BY GOING TO THE HISTORICAL
SOCIETY, IT WILL CONTINUE TO BE
NEW YORK’S PICASSO.
AND THANKS TO ALL THE FIGHTING,
IT’S NOW NEW YORK’S BEST-KNOWN
PICASSO.
>> Reporter: THE TAPESTRY
EMERGED UNSCATHED, SHROUDED IN
BUBBLE WRAP.
IT NOW HEADS TO MASSACHUSETTS
FOR A BIT OF CLEANING.
THE NEW YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY
HOPES TO RAISE THE CURTAIN ONCE
MORE NEXT SUMMER.
>> Sreenivasan: RECAPPING
TODAY’S TOP NEWS, ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS ARE CIRCULATING A NEW
VIDEO APPARENTLY SHOWING THE
BEHEADING OF A THIRD HOSTAGE,
A BRITISH AID WORKER NAMED DAVID
HAINES.
THE 44-YEAR-OLD WAS KIDNAPPED 18
MONTHS AGO IN SYRIA.
THE EXECUTIONER, BELIEVED TO BE
ANOTHER BRIT, WARNED BRITISH
PRIME MINISTER DAVID CAMERON
THAT HE IS DRAGGING HIS COUNTRY
INTO ANOTHER UNWINNABLE WAR.
AND THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT
HAS ISSUED AN EMERGENCY MESSAGE
WARNING OF A POSSIBLE IMMINENT
TERROR ATTACK IN UGANDA BY
AL-SHABAAB AND INSTRUCTED
AMERICANS THERE TO STAY HOME.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I’M HARI SREENIVASAN.
SEE YOU TOMORROW NIGHT.